There were three of us in that room and still had about the same furniture.
Somewhere along the line, I picked up what's called a Victrola.
At that time, it was a record player, and it was a little cabinet, and the top would raise up, and the sound went through some way back then.
We hit the top and rebound up, and it was a good little music box,
That year, this was my fifth year now when this happened, that year I was asked to join the Aggieland Eight, which was a dance band that was formed on the campus and had, the band had no authority over it, it was just a bunch that got together.
The previous bunch had graduated and there was one or two that had played the year before and
When they formed this year, for some reason they asked me if I wanted to play with them, and I said, sure.
Maybe it was because I had that Victrola and we could play records on it.
But we would go over to Bryan on Saturdays at the music store and listen to records.
And if we had a record that we liked while we would buy it, then we'd go back to my room and play it, and then each one of us would try to pick out our part, and we learned to play that way.
And then you all played dances?
We played for dances.
I still have somewhere a record of
what we made each night playing for dances.
The teachers would have a dance maybe once a month and different organizations, but we played darn near every weekend somewhere.
Somewhere on the campus?
Or in Bryan?
In the Elks Hall, over the country club, or some little town, the surrounding town.
We made somewhere around three,
to five or six dollars a night playing for about four hours.
Now, for the group or per person?
Per person.
Yeah, per person.
And what instruments were in that eight?
We had a bass horn, a trombone, two saxophones, a trumpet, drums and piano, and a banjo.
Jack Pink was the banjo player, and he was our leader.
Now, I get the impression that you didn't have music for all the things you played.
We did not.
Incidentally, now, the rest of the fellas were pretty good musicians.
The other saxophone player, as well as I recall, we had two saxophones.
As well as I recall, the other saxophone player couldn't read music either, good.
He could read it a little bit, about like I could.
We were able to get along, even as band music, because we'd soon learn how to play it by ear where we could do it all right.
What were some of your favorite tunes from that era that you remember?
Oh, me.
Tin Roof Blues, Way Down Yonder, New Orleans, Who, W-H-O, Who, Sonny,
Oh, there were a bunch of others now.
I can't remember all of them.
And the dances, did they do the Charleston?
It was just beginning.
Well, yes, we were playing it because we got into Houston.
Well, during the Christmas holidays, we went on a tour.
And we played in Kerrville the first night.
We played in San Antonio, we played in Galveston, played in Houston, and in Houston some of the dancers there decided they were going to have a little contest among themselves, and we played some piece which was good for Charleston dancing, and everybody nominated some couple, I forget who it was now, it was a champion Charleston couple.
But it was just becoming in and becoming popular at that time.
Do you happen to remember where in Houston y'all performed?
I don't in Houston, but we played in the Galvez Hotel in Galveston.
Hey, that big time.
Big time.
And how did y'all get around?
On the train?
We rode a train from Kerrville to Galveston.
I think we rented a...
car or a taxi to go from College Station to Kerrville.
Okay.
And you didn't move?
That seemed like a long distance to go by car.
You didn't, now you didn't take the piano with you though?
No, we always, they always furnished a piano.
where we were, but we did have to carry the bass horn with us.
And the drums.
And the drums, yeah.
I guess we rode the train most everywhere we went.
So when you said bass a while ago, it was a bass horn, not a string bass.
No, a bass horn.
Yeah, the sousaphone.
The sousaphone was just coming in at that time, too.
And y'all were playing jazz?
Yes.
We had one tune that there was no music for,
It was learned, or one of the previous Aggieland eights picked it up from some band that had been playing in a hotel in Corpus Christi.
Their season was up and the Aggieland came in to take their place, and while there was an overlapping there, this old band taught this piece of music to the Aggieland coming in.
And it was taken from, I think it's called Massenet's Elegy.
And they played that, or changed it to a Foxtot tune, and we learned that, and we played that one.
Now, that was strictly no spots to read on that one, but it was a darn nice dance tune, and everybody loved it.
Did you all have any themes?
Did you open usually with the same and close with the same?
No.
No, except we always closed, I guess, with a good bite of Texas.
Oh, okay.
And what did you all wear?
Just a uniform.
Maybe we wore street clothes.
Now, during the Christmas trip, we wore tuxedos.
And I guess for our regular dances,
particularly some special dance, we had tuxedos.
Did you have a conductor or just the eight of you played together?
The banjo player was our conductor.
And you were called the Aggieland Eight?
Aggieland Eight, uh-huh.
And the band had no, I mean, the band director had no authority over us.
It was just a pickup little organization that got together.
Do you have any idea how many years earlier the first Aggieland Eight was formed?
I know it was there when I got there, and there was one man, Saul Bartlett, who died just recently, a few years ago and lived in San Antonio.
Saul Bartlett was the trombone player.
Dink Hubby was the clarinet player.
Paul Washburn
played cornet or trumpet.
It did not have a banjo at the time, and I don't remember who played the piano.
They did have a bass horn.
Barney Dodd, who was in my class, played bass horn with them.
But I don't remember the rest of them now, but there were eight members of the band at that time.
And so you don't know whether it went back before World War I or not?
My what?
You don't know whether there was an Aggieland 8?
No, I have no idea when it was first formed.
And it continued after you a good while?
As far as I know it did until it was taken over by the band.
And I don't know what year that happened.
Oh, now that, see, that's a splendid one.
We didn't have anything about that group at all.
Oh, really?
And that's really good.
Let's see, do you remember any, when y'all were out playing, do you remember any goof-ups where y'all didn't get there, or the train derailed, or you went there?
No, we didn't miss any engagements.
I remember one night, we were going somewhere, and...
We were in a couple of cars, I guess.
The car I was in, we went over kind of a hump to get to the railroad track, and when we got on top, the darn car stopped.
And there was a train coming, but fortunately it was way down there, and we got out and pushed it off the track in time.
We cleared it in plenty of time.
That was the only close accident that we had that I recall.
Did y'all ever play for any celebrity people in the audience?
Governor?
Not that I recall.
Movie star?
None of the dances.
Of course, the band played for some special occasions.
As a matter of fact, my freshman year, Marshall Foch was coming to Houston.
for some kind of a celebration.
And the day before he was to arrive, as I understand it, whoever was putting this parade on, the local band union struck.
They wanted more money.
And they struck, and whoever was sponsored, they got in touch with the A&M band, wanted to know if they'd send the A&M band down to play for this march for the general.
And we went.
And it rained that night, late in the afternoon, but we played and marched, I don't know what was behind us, but we did march down Main Street to the Rice Hotel and went up to the Rice Hotel and had dinner there at somebody's expense.
And it was the first time in my life I ever had Ropeford cheese in celery.
And I thought that was great.
Now, that was the whole Aggie band, not just the Eight.
Yeah, that was a full band.
I guess it was 95 to 100, something like that.
Did the Aggieland Eight ever play at the Rice Hotel?
Do you remember?
I don't remember that we did.
The only time we were there, well, we played in Sylvan Beach, I guess on that Christmas trip, and then...
We didn't play in the Rice Hotel the night we played there.
I think that was the night before we played to Galveston.
Then from Galveston we went to Sylvan Beach.
Let's see, back to going to class.
Before we get off the band, let me mention one thing.
In Fort Worth, during this Christmas trip, we played for a dance in Fort Worth, and we had an upright piano.
And...
there was two or three in the crowd that had a little bit too much to drink.
Well one of them, some of them, I don't know who it was now, or maybe more than one, but anyhow somebody danced by and had a firecracker.
And just before he got by the band he fired this thing up and he threw it into the piano that had this front of it open.
It was an upright piano and that front was off of it, and the piano player didn't know it.
Well, that firecracker went off, and you can imagine what happened.
It really stopped the music, but everything finally quieted down.
But it was, I'll never forget that as long as I live, that noise that thing made in that piano.
As you recall, what song or songs did you most enjoy that y'all played?
What were your favorites?
I liked this song, Who.
There was a, at that time there was a musical comedy in New York City playing, called Sonny.
And although there was a tune in that play, there was a feature tune named Sonny, the tune that I always remember was this Who.
That stuck in my mind.
That, and this one that we picked up, this one that's taken from the Elegy, I liked that one very much.
But that was the two main ones that I liked.
Let's see.
Am I talking too much?
No, no, no, no, no, no.
I'm just realizing I need to get ready for the next tape.
The then in the eve after you finished the supper Let's go back to the routine of the day you went back to your room and Did you all studied in your room or did you go to the library?
Well those that had to go to the library for some reason went to the library, but mostly it was studying in your room and That first year what courses
do you remember as being the toughest for you?
I can't remember what year I had calculus, but the one that was really tough for me was calculus.
And the reason for it was, I guess, besides my dumbness, was the teacher we had.
He explained nothing.
And frankly, I just, I never did understand that calculus.
To this day, I don't understand it.
Let's see, and you were an engineering major?
Yes, yes.
And why engineering?
Do you remember why you?
I guess I was always kind of mechanically inclined.
I liked to take things apart and see what made the wheels go around.
And then, too, this friend suggested that I take mechanical engineering, because it was about as broad a course as you could get, a little bit of everything, chemistry, civil engineering, mechanical.
How did you all register for courses then?
Where did you sign up?
There was a room over in the old main building.
I guess it was the dean's office at the time.
There on the first floor.
And was there a person that you went to for advice about what to take or what not to take?
Was there somebody that... I don't recall that there was.
It seemed to me like the course was set.
It was published, and you went to the library.
And you took everything?
Took whatever it called for there.
We had to buy our own books.
I know that.
Did you go to the library very often to study?
No.
As well as I recall, I spent most of the time in the room studying.
Now, the Cushing Library was already built.
No.
It wasn't?
It was a room in Old Main down on the end of the building, as well as I recall, on what would be the south end of the Old Main building.
Was Tommy Mayo the librarian?
Yes.
Describe him.
He was average size.
dark-complected nice-looking fellow and a very personable man I think we all liked him as a teacher very much was the library a pleasant place to go and study
Yes, it was very small, just one of those size of a classroom, but it was pretty well equipped with the books that were required that you needed to refer to.
Now, when freshmen were getting hazed, later there would be no hazing in the library.
They couldn't pick on you.
Was that true in your day?
As far as I know it was.
I don't remember that that was a rule, but I was never bothered.
Back in your room when the sophomores were hazing the freshmen, what did they do?
Well,
The fellas that I lived next door to, the sophomores there, if they wanted me for anything, they just knocked on the wall.
All right.
Banged on the wall, and I went to see what it was that they wanted.
I personally was hazed very little as a freshman.
Did you ever get paddled?
Oh, yes.
Yeah, I got paddled, but it wasn't severe.
There's two occasions when I got paddled that I remember.
One, when I was...
I don't remember when it was now.
I guess it was in my freshman year.
It must have been, but an airplane fell over in what was the airport at that time.
It was an Army plane, and it was broken up pretty much.
And there was a fellow who was in on the football team named Jack Evans.
He went over there to see this wreck, and he found a strut.
that went from the fuselage up to the wing, and he got that strut, and that was his fish killer.
And at the end of that freshman year, I guess he came by the room one day showing that thing off, and I said, when you graduate, I want that.
Well, he gave it to me.
He gave it to me, yes.
And I had that strut for years and years and years,
It was in my home down at Galveston, and I don't know what became of it.
Now, was it a wooden strut?
Oh, yes.
It was wooden?
It was a wooden strut.
Oh, it was a beautiful thing.
About that long.
Where was the airport then?
I think it was over there in the general area where the present airport is.
Oh, really?
Okay.
And it was, I don't know how much of an airfield it was.
Probably nothing but a fenced-in place with a sign, this is the airport.
It was very small and not very well known.
All right, at night, did you and your buddies ever dream up any mischief?
Play any tricks on anybody else?
I don't recall that we did in particular.
We had some kind of a meeting one night, and I have a picture of it.
I guess it was a whole band.
There was a, in the middle of Milner Hall there, there was an opening, I guess you'd call it, and all of us had on some kind of a dressed up uniform, costume rather, and we were out in the middle of this area there, atrium I guess it would be, and for some reason we were all dressed up in some kind of little funny uniform.
I had some kind of a cap on with a plume sticking out of the top of it.
And I don't remember what the occasion was, though.
I remember very well one incident when we were in the shacks.
It was inspection time.
Taps had blown, and I was officer of the day, I guess, there for our company, for the band, and I was making an inspection.
I got down to one cabin, one shack,
where I knew some freshmen lived, and the light was on, taps had blown.
So I knocked on the door to see what was going on in this freshman's room, and the door opened about a couple of inches, and here came a sandwich stuck out.
Well, as I mentioned, we had those wooden stoves in there.
These freshmen and some sophomores had
acquired a turkey of some kind.
And they had fried turkey sandwiches.
And what that was that passed out there was a fried turkey sandwich that they gave to me.
Well, of course, I had to go in and investigate, but it was delicious.
But the next week or two, when the, oh, the little magazine that came out each week, they still have it.
The battalion?
Battalion.
The next issue of the battalion, there was quite an article in there about one of the favorite turkeys over in the chicken farm was missing.
I have no idea where it went, but I know we had a good turkey sandwich one night.
That was about all I can tell you about that one.
Let's see, were there drowned outs then?
Were there what?
Drowned outs.
Later, if you were a freshman, you and your buddies, and you wanted to get back at a sophomore, you'd catch him in bed, sound asleep, and then pour a lot of water on him.
You drowned him out.
I don't recall that we did.
However, it did happen, and I remember very distinctly one night, there was a disturbance over in Leggett Hall, I think it was, which was just down the street from Milner, and Dr. Brazell,
came over to see what was going on over there at Leggett Hall.
And as he walked up the steps, somebody up on the ceiling dumped a barrel of water on Dr. Bazell going up those steps.
And I don't remember what happened after that.
But somebody was up on the roof of that hall.
And when he came up there to investigate the trouble, that water was dumped on him.
Describe your memory of Dr. Bazell and his personality.
He had a very good personality.
He appeared to be a most kind gentleman, and someone that you felt like you could go to and talk with any time you wanted to.
I don't recall that I had an occasion to do it, but I felt like that
I was all free to go and talk to him if I wanted to and visit with him.
Did he seem strict in his rules and his beliefs?
Yes, but he was very gentle and very kind, but he was quite businesslike.
And he wanted attention to what you were doing and try to get the students to be good students.
Did you ever see this young lady I mentioned a while ago in my speech, his daughter Elaine?
Many times.
Describe her.
Well, she was a very attractive young lady.
Mostly I remember it as my freshman year, and she was quite likable.
Some of the seniors I know dated her quite a bit.
And incidentally, there was another young lady there at the same time who I'm sure went through, and that was Dean Bolton's daughter.
And then there was another one, and I can't remember her name.
One of the other deans had a daughter there, and those three of them, they were there at the same time.
And they went to classes?
As far as I know, they did, yes.
And did y'all think that was a good idea, to have three girls there?
I don't think we thought much about it.
We just wondered, well, why are they here?
That was probably it.
Yeah.
But I don't think it bothered us any.
There was another one that came there one summer when I was there.
After I failed that calculus, I went to summer school.
And there was a young lady there that that summer that went to classes, and I, for the sake of it, I can't remember her name or where she was from.
Now, was Bolton already dean when you got there?
Uh, yes.
Was he dean of engineering?
No, he was, yes, he was dean when I got there.
Did y'all call him Bear Tracks yet?
No.
Later that would be his nickname was Bear Tracks.
Not that I recall, no.
Describe him, Dean Bolton.
Uh, he, again, was a very,
who seemed to be a very capable man, knew what he was doing, but he was, as I remember, he was rather strict and businesslike and wanted you to pay attention to what was going on and try to learn.
How did you communicate with your family while you were a student at A&M?
Did you write letters?
Well, mostly letters.
I was trying to think.
There was a telephone on the front of Gathright Hall
But usually when it was time to do some telephoning, they were lined up.
And you had a hard time getting the telephone.
And there again, you'd give the operator the telephone number you wanted.
And later on, they'd call you back after they made a connection.
But communication was mostly by mail.
And where was the mailbox then?
Well, it was there in Gathright Hall.
The post office was in... In Gathright?
In Gathright, yes.
Do you remember your box number?
No.
291 comes my mind, but I don't think that was it.
About how often did you write your mother?
Once a month.
And what about her?
How often did she... About once a month, I guess.
And during those years, how often did you go home to Galveston?
Not very often.
Did you go before Thanksgiving?
I don't think I did.
I don't remember.
One time the Cadet Corps went to Austin and I couldn't go.
I didn't have any money.
So I went home for that Thanksgiving.
I would say
Although I lived fairly close to Galveston, I don't think I went over once each semester.
Well, I guess mostly it was just Christmas time.
I don't remember making very many trips during the school year.
Describe, if you can, that first year or two, an Aggie football game Saturday.
What did y'all do all day?
You went to class.
Went to class if you had them on Saturday morning, and most of us did.
I think mine were lab classes.
I remember my senior year, the representative from General Electric Company was going to be on the campus, and I didn't know it.
I missed the announcement of it, and I was in the mechanical engineering lab that Saturday morning.
I guess I heard about it and had on a jumpsuit, a dirty work clothes, because I was there working in the lab, and I heard he was on the campus over in the electrical engineering building, so I washed my hands right quick and went over and interviewed the gentleman, talked with him a while, and I guess filed an application for an employment with him, and went back to the lab.
The lab was over, went back to the room, cleaned up, washed up and all, and then the band formed.
to Morton's Cadet Corps into the dining hall and so helped me right there on that corner where the band formed was this man that I interviewed from General Electric Company.
And I went over and talked with him, introduced myself to him again.
And I don't know, but I think that helped me get a job at General Electric.
Oh, did you get a job?
I sure did.
What was the beginning salary?
50 cents an hour.
And was this?
I was in Schenectady, New York.
This is after graduation?
Yes.
And what was your task?
It was what they called a test course.
You were in the testing department, testing machinery after you had it been manufactured and was being tested to be sure everything was correct and right for it.
If it wasn't, then you had to make whatever corrections were necessary.
And that was what year?
That was in the fall of 1926.
26.
They had several different courses.
The first one I was in was this, it was elevator controls, electric controls for elevators.
That lasted a month.
From there I transferred tests, testing large steam turbine generator sets.
That lasted six weeks, no, three months.
And on and on like that, you transfer through different departments, and most of the fellows stayed in there about two years' time.
I only stayed 14 months.
There was a job open down in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
They needed somebody, and although I kind of wanted to stay on those tests a little bit longer, they needed somebody in Tulsa, so they transferred me down there.
G.E.?
Well, G.E.
I see.
Did you stay with them a long time?
My entire professional life.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Oh.
And what was more, after I retired, at my retirement party, oh, they gave us a little talk, and then they asked me to make some remarks, which I did.
And when I got through, then somebody said, what are you going to do now?
I said, well, I'm going to go on vacation, I guess.
Why would I go down the valley?
And I was trying to think of something to say.
I said, well, when I get back, I'm going over to Manpower Incorporated and sign up with them, let them farm me out somewhere, knowing that these engineering concerns would hire people, get a contract, and after it was over, they let them go.
And then you'd get another one, a job would come up.
Well, anyhow, that's what I did.
And when I came back, the guy called me.
Well, he called me the next morning and said, did you mean what you said?
I said, yes, I did.
And he said, well, when you go on your vacation trip, when you come back, give me a call.
And I did.
And he said, well, if it's convenient, will you come on back next Monday and go to work where you were?
Which I did, and stayed there.
Now, in the meantime, I had been down to Corpus Christi, and that job played out down there, and I was transferred into Houston.
And it was a little bit different work than what I had been doing, sales engineering work.
And this was mostly inside work.